Erisk is a research initiative that focused on using digital data in order to identificate different issues related to health and safety such as mental health problems. The goal is to develop different methods that could spot warning signs on these issues and that could help with early intervention.
Given my interest in mental health disoerders I participated in the first task of erisk for 2024. The participants were asked to rank texts from reddit users by how closely they match/relate to the 21 symptoms of becks depression inventory. 

My work resulted in a published paper that can be read here: https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3740/paper-78.pdf

Abstract:
 In a world where social media gives a peek into people’s lives and minds, these platforms are increasingly essential for understanding and recognizing mental health disorders. As more people turn to social networks to express their thoughts and difficulties, there is a greater possibility to uncover connections that may indicate mental health issues such as depression. Understanding these issues early, particularly in virtual environments, can be a vital step toward prompt intervention and support. In this context, we tackle thefirst task of the eRisk Lab for 2024: analyzing Reddit comments to identify symptoms of depression. Our objective is to use information collected from Reddit’s various user communities to identify sentiments associated with symptoms of depression listed in the BDI-II questionnaire. As a place where people may openly discuss ideas and experiences, Reddit provides a unique perspective on how people express themselves, including their difficulties with mental health. Through utilizing this content created by users, we hope to bring to light how depression presents itself in digital environments
